You can contribute to fun facts like these on GitHub at [@cpstarforce/BotResponses](https://github.com/cpstarforce/BotResponses "Visit the BotResponses repository by @cpstarforce on GitHub").
Star Force began development on December 25, 2024, shortly after SF creator Fun X Time left the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT).
Star Force (of Club Penguin) is often abbreviated as SF, CPSF, or rarely, SFCP.
Star Force is set to launch on June 15, 2025.
The Star Force Discord server was open to the public on March 15, 2025, exactly three months before the army's launch.
Star Force has four defined important visions—competitiveness, morale, inspiration, and professionalism.
Club Penguin armies began in 2006, an year after Club Penguin's inception. One of the first armies include the Army of Club Penguin (ACP).
Star Force creator Fun X Time had created two armies before establishing the army. He founded the Penguin Federation Army (TPFA) in 2020 which later rebranded into the Heroes of Club Penguin (HCP) in the same year, and the Weeknds of Club Penguin (WCP) in 2024. Notably, WCP was a meme army.
Penguin Chat was Club Penguin's predecessor. It ran between 2000 and 2005.
Club Penguin was an online flash game that ran till 2017. Club Penguin private servers (CPPS) are HTML5 recreations of the original game.
CPA Battleground was launched on April 23, 2022. The game was created by army community veteran Superhero123.
The first individual to submit an approved staff application was SUHL2, who submitted his application on June 22, 2025. He was inaugurated with many other applicants on August 17, 2025.
In August and September 2025, the staff team only had Supreme Commander Fun X Time, and 6 other members of the Staff-in-Training program. These members were awaiting promotion to a staff rank.
The members of the staff team and the Staff-in-Training program earn a sum of coins and some experience for their efforts every month.
The ranks at Star Force are inspired by the rank system of a 2009 MMO online game called Tanki Online.
First Lieutenant is the last rank you can reach at Star Force unless you join the Staff-in-Training program to acquire Captain.
At Star Force, the Field Marshal rank is also known as Leader-in-Training, the Marshal rank as Second-in-Command, and General as Third-in-Command.
When Star Force was launched in June 2025, members of the Missionaries of the Stars (MTS) group led by Fun X Time were enlisted in the newfound army. These missionaries agreed to enlist in the army upon its launch.
Star Force's plans to start its own Minecraft server date back to January 2025 in private messages. However, work began later in summer.